0.6.0 CTS Docs (#12913)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/nia/cli/start.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Start Command
description: >-
  Consul-Terraform-Sync supports start command for starting CTS as a daemon
---

# start

> The `start` command starts Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS) as a daemon. When running as a daemon, there is no default configuration to start CTS in a meaningful way. Setting a configuration flag `-config-file` or `-config-dir` is required. For example:

Author: When CTS runs as a daemon, there is no default configuration to start CTS. You must set a configuration flag -config-file or -config-dir. For example:

> The `start` command starts Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS) as a daemon. When running as a daemon, there is no default configuration to start CTS in a meaningful way. Setting a configuration flag `-config-file` or `-config-dir` is required. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
The `start` command starts Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS) as a daemon. When CTS runs as a daemon, there is no default configuration to start CTS. You must set a configuration flag -config-file or -config-dir. For example:
```

```shell-session
$ consul-terraform-sync start -config-file=config.hcl
```

> To view a list of available flags, use the `-help` or `-h` flag.

Author: ```suggestion
To review a list of available flags, use the `-help` or `-h` flag.
```

### Modes

CTS can be run as a daemon in different modes.

#### Long-running Mode

Flag: none

> Behavior: This is the default mode in which CTS passes through a once-mode phase and then turns into a long-running process. During the once-mode phase, the daemon will exit with a non-zero status if it encounters an error. After successfully passing through once-mode phase, it will begin a long-running process in which errors are logged and exiting is not expected behavior. Once beginning the long-running process, the daemon serves any API and command requests.

Author: Nit, might be just me, but the highlighted sentence feels a bit convoluted. I am thinking something like this would be simpler?
When the long-running process begins, CTS daemon starts serving API and command requests.
I think because that "Once ..." in the beginning of the sentence is confusing me with the 'once-mode' references in the same paragraph.

Author: Sentence referred to: `Once beginning the long-running process, the daemon serves any API and command requests.`

> Behavior: This is the default mode in which CTS passes through a once-mode phase and then turns into a long-running process. During the once-mode phase, the daemon will exit with a non-zero status if it encounters an error. After successfully passing through once-mode phase, it will begin a long-running process in which errors are logged and exiting is not expected behavior. Once beginning the long-running process, the daemon serves any API and command requests.

Author: ```suggestion
Behavior: This is the default mode in which CTS passes through a once-mode phase and then turns into a long-running process. During the once-mode phase, the daemon will exit with a non-zero status if it encounters an error. After successfully passing through once-mode phase, it will begin a long-running process in which errors are logged and exiting is not expected behavior. When the long-running process begins, CTS daemon starts serving API and command requests..
```
